# Wiimote File Manager README

## About

This project is built off a fork from the Wiiuse Wiimote library. Thank you to all contributors to this amazing library, without it I wouldn't know where to start. I in no way take credit for any code or work that handles the connection or initialization of Wii Remote's or Bluetooth related functionality.

The Wiimote File Manager is a app that intends to allow users to turn their old wii remotes into storage systems. This is enabled through the use of the Wiiuse library written in C.

The Wii remote has about 6kb of free memory that can be written to in the remote's EEPROM chip. See Wiibrew sources for more information.

When using the app, you may see the appearance of `.wpf` files. These are a file type created for this project, dubbed the `Wiimote Partial File`, they are used to prepare data for sending to a wii remote. A file can be splite into multipe `.wpf` files, and each file can be saved to an individual remote. When downloading files, `.wpf` file's are downloaded into a working directory, and then stitched together into the original file and deleted.

## Usage

To use, generate the executable, and drag and drop a file onto it. This will run the app and direct it to upload the given file. If you prefer to run it on a CLI, run the executable and give it a location of a file intended to be downloaded.

To download a file, just run the app with no arguments. This will connect to a wii remote, and download the first piece of data on it.
In the future, file seeking and management is planned.

## Audience

This is a personal project intended to show off the features of the wii remote. Anyone curious about the remote, or interested in the Wii is welcome.

### For all platforms

- Compilation requires [CMake](http://cmake.org)

## Known Issues

This app only works for Windows operating systems.

Randomly, downloads or uploads will halt and crash the program. Rare, but can occur.

LED lights sometimes don't turn off when app ends

When writing files, it will write over any Mii data. In contrast, any Mii data written post-upload of a file will overwrite a part of whatever file was in the position Mii data is saved to.

The app prevents full usage of all EEPROM memory, and limits to files of a size 5312B, with an additional 48B for metadata information about the original file's name and size.

File's saved to the wii remote are limited currently. File name's are limited to 16 characters, and File extensions are also limited to 16 characters.

## Acknowledgements

<http://wiibrew.org/>

> This site has documented so much of the Wii and Wii remote's functionalities and usage. Without it I would never have been able to do this

<http://github.com/wiiuse/wiiuse>

> An amazing and easy to use library allowing control of the Wii Remote, thank you to the authors

## Other Links

### Links used during development

- Thread on the Wiimote's protocols: <http://wiibrew.org/wiki/Wiimote>
- The above link was broken on 2/22/2024, however, a snapshot exists on the internet archive: <https://web.archive.org/web/20240121091849/http://wiibrew.org/wiki/Wiimote>
